so it's 4:30 in the morning here in
Casco Bay the Sun is just peeking up
over the Atlantic Ocean it's absolutely
beautiful and I'm really excited to see
what's in store for us today on the
fishing book
captain Jim and his first mate Andy have
been fishing Maine's Casco Bay their
whole lives they're taking me out to one
of their favorite fishing spots a couple
hours off the coast where they think we
can find some great fish for my recipe
well it's about 6:00 a.m. and we're
steaming out into the Gulf of Maine
we're heading to the fishing grounds
with a creek for hearty soul gonna run
offshore about 50 miles today we're
gonna get you guys on some awesome
bottom some of my favorite fishing
grounds
okay builing we're here let me give you
just a little bit of a fishing lesson
put a rod belt on and that's gonna save
you he'll feel the bump of the weight of
the jig and get slack so we're just
looking for that slack and then pulling
back up there secret spot is so packed
the fish and he caught one literally 30
seconds into the day what you want to do
is you want to pull the hook up off
Blowfish y'all Bennett nice yeah baby
hahaha gimmick if man why not ha first
one baby so lots of gun
that's a fine-looking car do that make a
nice dinner to be some good eating
nice fish and chips right back in that
boy hurry up yeah really good get some
more let's get going maybe over in the
box you're number one and our luck
didn't stop there
the fish were almost jumping into the
boat haha feels good to be chucking in
laws out there brother
I mean every time I catch one of these
it's like 10 minutes of reeling I mean
we're coming from about 400 feet so you
know it's a long fight fish y'all fish'
really ain't caught is one thing but
nothing could have prepared me for what
was next we got a shotgun feel real real
get my rowdy guys real up quick as you
can give it it's gonna hit the fan guys
get ready get him up man to get him up
alright barn two hands now I got a lot
of drag on that Hey two hands high up on
the rod this is intense
this analyse this is intense shark
fishing is no joke it feels like I have
a truck attached to the end of this line
you're in for a hell of a fight here
though this ain't coming in early
laughing my arms giving up a little bit
giddyup now he's that stopping over to
starboard oh yeah
we want to keep a tight line Oh keep it
right off to fingers off what do you
need these I think we dropped it Jim
drop them all right we'll get another
one that's why they call it fishing and
not catching right well we may have lost
a shark but we have plenty of Cod for my
next recipe all right this is
so fire and you have fun fishing with us
out and go for Maine today I had a blast
we got some nice table fish yeah I can't
wait to cook them up
oh it's Cod cast those are beautiful fry
fish well we got some fishing here for
the crew and I - it's great to have make
much captain thank you very much
I caught some beautiful Cod in Casco Bay
with Captain Jim and his first mate Andy
and I'm really excited to batter this
guy up first I'm going to start on my
tartar sauce
because what sufficient chips without
tartar sauce so the basin of tartar
sauce is really just this mayonnaise
she's going to bind all the ingredients
together
here I've subtract Cornish sean's has a
nice briny flavor capers some shallots
I'm gonna add some parsley that's good
to see rough chop right into the bowl
now I'm gonna grab some tarragon and
this is going to bring this licorice
flavor you're not going to find tarragon
in your traditional tartar sauce but I
just really enjoy it now I'm going to
add a squeeze of the lemon just a tiny
bit of salt and some black pepper
that looks good it's going to go perfect
with my fish set this guy side and now
I'm going to start on my chips let's
grab a few potatoes
all right so this is a Japanese mandolin
it really it's just a set blade so
you're just going to slide the potato
back and forth really consistent motion
it's a really essential tool to getting
these really thin consistent slices you
know you're not putting too much
pressure on this you want the blade to
do all the work you can get pretty close
but I like to keep it safe just throw
away this stubby or you can use it in a
stock or a soup but I don't want to risk
my fingers start a new potato that
should be good right there now I'm going
to soak them in water just to get rid of
some of that starch so they don't stick
together as they fry so I put this paper
towel down because I want to blot some
of the excess water off these chips
because you never want to add water to a
hot pot of oil all right now I'm going
to start frying my potato chips but
before that I want to check the
temperature I have this handy dandy
infrared thermometer about 350 is good
it's good to keep these potato chips
moving around you don't want any hot
spots in your oil and you'll start to
tell when they're done because they'll
get a really nice golden-brown gonna
strain this and blot it off on a paper
towel get rid of any excess oil just
pull these last ones out now I'm going
to chop up some herbs and toss it in
with the potato chips it's just going to
give it a nice aroma some tomato parsley
all right some pic time this is just
going to give a little color to the
potatoes nice aromatic or base flavor
toss these herbs in there add a little
bit of salt give it a quick toss and
some cracked black pepper all right
these are done now I'm going to move on
to my batter for the fish we're going to
my stell out pop this guy open I'm going
to crack an egg just going to help bind
the whole batter just a little bit of
Stella we're going to start with just a
small amount of liquid and the
carbonation is really just going to
lighten the batter yielding a really
crispy fish whisk that up I'm going to
add a little bit of flour at a time make
sure it doesn't clump up so you want to
add this in small portions just keep
repeating this process really this is
just going to be very reminiscent of a
pancake batter you want this just to
coat the back of a spoon I'm just going
to put a little bit of salt in here and
that is looking good
now I'm going to get onto the fish we
caught some of these guys out in Casco
Bay nice and fresh
probably quarter this and just nice
strips like that I'm going to cut this
other guy right in half
is to just go straight into the batter
so these are just lightly coated so the
important thing when frying this fish is
that the temperature of the oil has to
be just right because you want the
batter cooked and nice and golden-brown
but you also want the fish cooked all
the way through these will take about
five to seven minutes but really you're
going to know that they've done when the
outside just gets nice and golden brown
all right these look just absolutely
fantastic put these over here blot any
excess oil off you don't want them to be
too greasy a little bit of salt right
when they come out and I'm going to
plate this just a handful of these
seasoned chips there you go nice stack
these a good serving size and of course
my tartar sauce
now this go right in the basket
now I'm gonna have a taste mmm fish is
cooked perfectly and the batter is just
really nice thin and crispy I taste one
of these chips too it's great fried
foods are really salty and fatty so it's
nice to have the cedrus Crisp apple
notes to balance it all out thank you so
much for watching hopefully enjoyed my
take on this classic dish join me next
week as I head down to Hampton New
Hampshire to check out their seafood
festival